---
layout: post
type: post
title: "Focus"
published: true
tabs: [Productivity]
---

As a technologist and a programmer, I've signed myself up for lifelong learning.
Unless I want to learn `COBOL` and maintain bank software until I'm old a grey (or
older and greyer), I need to be able to adapt and change my thinking to continue
being relevant.

I think, though, that sometimes I take this mentality a little too far.

On a recent trip to Thailand, I was reading through [Clojure Programming](http://www.clojurebook.com/)
and letting my mind wander with the possibilities. Clojure is a fascinating language,
and the LISP family of languages has always held a special, if poorly understood,
place in my mind. Continuous learning is great, and necessary, but what I realized
upon returning to Canada is that there's a whole lot I still need to learn about
the skills that I use every day.

While doing some git surgery to fix a mangled commit history, I turned to my good
friend `rebase`, when a simple `reset --hard` would do the trick. When reading an
article about common pitfalls in Python, I realized that a lot of the concepts were
fresh to me. When code reviewing some CSS I discovered you can embed base 64 encoded
images into stylesheets. A bug in an AngularJS project I'm working on taught me more
about JavaScripts prototypical inheritance.

Mastering the tools that you already use is immediately rewarding. I'm not saying I won't
ever explore new languages and concepts (in fact, I think it's necessary and
empowering to do so), but sometimes it helps to dig deeper into the stuff you
already use.

Software is a craft, first and foremost. It helps to broaden your horizons, but there's
also immediate practical benefit to becoming better with the tools you already know and love.
